Add docs for gomaxprops option (#416)
elastic/ingest-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/elastic-agent/install-elastic-agent.asciidoc

| **RSS Mem Size** | 400 MB
|===
Adding integrations will increase the memory used by the agent and its processes.

[discrete]
=== Limiting {agent} resources

> If you need to limit the amount of resource consumed by {agent} you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This option sets the maximum number of CPUs that can be executing simultaneously.

Reviewer: @kilfoyle let's rewrite this section please. this configuration is not limiting CPU used by the agent, it's "limiting the CPU used by the _underlying beats_ that are supervised by agent." So for example, setting agent.limits.go_max_procs to 1, would mean that only the beats supervised by the agent will be limited to 1 vCPU. "elastic-agent status" would show the user how many beats are being supervised by the agent.

@rdner does this value have to be an integer or are decimals also acceptable? (like half a vcpu)

Author: Thanks for the clarification Nima. I've updated the section as shown. Let me know if I've missed anything:

![Screenshot 2023-08-21 at 4 19 42 PM](https://github.com/elastic/ingest-docs/assets/41695641/448023e0-7003-4100-b221-0c83eb1ddd2f)

@rdner I'll add a note about whether the value has to be an integer once you have a chance to confirm.

Reviewer 2: > this configuration is not limiting CPU used by the agent, it's "limiting the CPU used by the underlying beats that are supervised by agent." So for example, setting agent.limits.go_max_procs to 1, would mean that only the beats supervised by the agent will be limited to 1 vCPU. "elastic-agent status" would show the user how many beats are being supervised by the agent.

This is not accurate.

This parameter sets how many CPUs the **Go runtime can schedule Go routines on**. It does not guarantee that the the given CPU count is used. It might use more for internal purposes of the runtime. 

This is what the official documentation says:

> The GOMAXPROCS variable limits the number of operating system threads that can execute user-level Go code simultaneously. There is no limit to the number of threads that can be blocked in system calls on behalf of Go code; those do not count against the GOMAXPROCS limit. This package's GOMAXPROCS function queries and changes the limit.

https://pkg.go.dev/runtime

The value is set **for both the agent and underlying Beats it runs**, it does not affect Endpoint because it's not written in Go.

> @rdner does this value have to be an integer or are decimals also acceptable? (like half a vcpu)

it's only integer, not decimal.

Reviewer 2: We already have this parameter exposed in the Beats configuration, by the way. It might make sense to make references and updates to that too https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/configuration-general-options.html#_max_procs

Author: Thanks Denis. The Beats docs look pretty clear but I've added a link from these new docs to the max_procs setting. I've also clarified that the value must be an integer:

![Screenshot 2023-08-21 at 5 39 56 PM](https://github.com/elastic/ingest-docs/assets/41695641/8689f5bf-e22c-4cf8-a7d6-d83acf3f8d49)

Reviewer: @rdner thanks. The "threads that can execute user-level Go code simultaneously" confuses me a bit. Can you explain what happens when each Beat under agent has GOMAXPROCS set to 1?  let's just say we have 4 beats (ignoring that agent is also in GO. My understanding is that **each** Beat would then be limited to maximum of 1 thread. So in totality of the agent (again ignoring agent itself) we are limited to 4 CPUs. (of course each beat is limited to only 1). 

@cmacknz can i get your eyes on this docs change also. thank you.

Reviewer 2: @nimarezainia there is no simple explanation, unfortunately. If we want to tell our customers the truth it has to be very complicated. The Go runtime is running its own OS threads on any amount of CPUs it has access to. For example, the garbage collector. It's a runtime implementation detail that might change in a later Go release.

What `GOMAXPROCS=1` is limiting is what's running **on that runtime**, so the code that we build and run on it. For example, all the Filebeat code running in parallel will be scheduled only using a single CPU. However, the second CPU might be used by the garbage collector or any other runtime thread. So, it's not accurate to say that we limit **everything** to a single CPU.

@cmacknz might have a better explanation that I do but it does not change the facts.

Reviewer 3: The simplest explanation for GOMAXPROCS is that it limits the number of operating system threads that can be executing Go code simultaneously. The majority of users will not care for these low level details, as long as our explanation is approximately correct.

GOMAXPROCS accounts for all user level Go code as far as I can tell, that is the code that executes in kernel user space.  We can link them back to the definition of GOMAXPROCS in the Go runtime and interested readers can dig as far as they want to. https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#GOMAXPROCS

For completeness, the GCCPUFraction parameter describes GOMAXPROCS in a way that indicates that it does include CPU time spent in the garbage collector.

```go
        // GCCPUFraction is the fraction of this program's available
	// CPU time used by the GC since the program started.
	//
	// GCCPUFraction is expressed as a number between 0 and 1,
	// where 0 means GC has consumed none of this program's CPU. A
	// program's available CPU time is defined as the integral of
	// GOMAXPROCS since the program started. That is, if
	// GOMAXPROCS is 2 and a program has been running for 10
	// seconds, its "available CPU" is 20 seconds. GCCPUFraction
	// does not include CPU time used for write barrier activity.
	//
	// This is the same as the fraction of CPU reported by
	// GODEBUG=gctrace=1.
	GCCPUFraction [float64](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#float64)
```

Author: Thanks @cmacknz, that seems very clear! Here's some proposed text:

>If you need to limit the amount of CPU consumption you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This parameter limits the number of operating system threads that can be executing Go code simultaneously, thereby limiting the CPU used by both the agent and the underlying {beats} that it supervises. The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` option accepts an integer value not less than `0`, which is the default value that stands for "all available CPUs".

>The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option is similar to the {beats} {filebeat-ref}/configuration-general-options.html#_max_procs[`max_procs`] setting. For more detail about the option, refer to the link:https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#GOMAXPROCS[GOMAXPROCS] function in the Go runtime documentation.

>To enable the option, run a <<fleet-api-docs,{fleet} API>> request from the {kib} {kibana-ref}/console-kibana.html[Dev Tools console] to override your current {agent} policy and add the `go_max_procs` parameter. For example, to limit {agent} to two CPUs, run:

> ...API example...

To enable the option, run a <<fleet-api-docs,{fleet} API>> request from the {kib} {kibana-ref}/console-kibana.html[Dev Tools console] to override your current {agent} policy and add the `go_max_procs` parameter. For example, to limit {agent} to two CPUs, run:

[source,shell]
--
PUT kbn:/api/fleet/agent_policies/<policy-id>
{
  "name": "<policy-name>",
  "namespace": "default",
  "overrides": {
    "agent": {
      "limits": {
        "go_max_procs": 2
      }
    }
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: @cmacknz is Fleet API meant to be documented and used by all our customers? I thought it was something that only support suggests in some edge cases.

Reviewer: @rdner No, Fleet APIs have been GA since 8.8 so definitely valid for broad consumption.

Reviewer 3: Yes, it's fine to document it as Nima said. We wouldn't want every user to have to use the override API to use Fleet, but for less common or advanced cases like this it is fine.

| **RSS Mem Size** | 400 MB
|===
Adding integrations will increase the memory used by the agent and its processes.

[discrete]
=== Limiting CPU usage

> If you need to limit the amount of CPU consumption you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This parameter sets how many CPUs the Go runtime can schedule Go routines on for both the agent and the underlying {beats} that it supervises. The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` option accepts any integer value.

Author: Thanks @rdner! Here's how it looks now:

![Screenshot 2023-08-22 at 9 01 07 AM](https://github.com/elastic/ingest-docs/assets/41695641/cf125614-43eb-4894-bbdb-e0563f4ded12)

> If you need to limit the amount of CPU consumption you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This parameter limits the number of operating system threads that can be executing Go code simultaneously, thereby limiting the CPU used by both the agent and the underlying {beats} that it supervises. The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` option accepts an integer value not less than `0`, which is the default value that stands for "all available CPUs".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need to limit the amount of CPU consumption you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This parameter limits the number of operating system threads that can be executing Go code simultaneously in each Go process. The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` option accepts an integer value not less than `0`, which is the default value that stands for "all available CPUs". The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` limit applies independently to the agent and each underlying Go processes that it supervises. For example, if {agent} is configured to supervise two {beats} with `agent.limits.go_max_procs: 2` in the policy, then the total CPU limit is six, where each of the three processes may independently execute on two CPUs.
```

> If you need to limit the amount of CPU consumption you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This parameter limits the number of operating system threads that can be executing Go code simultaneously in each Go process. The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` option accepts an integer value not less than `0`, which is the default value that stands for "all available CPUs". The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` limit applies independently to the agent and each underlying Go processes that it supervises. For example, if {agent} is configured to supervise two {beats} with `agent.limits.go_max_procs: 2` in the policy, then the total CPU limit is six, where each of the three processes may independently execute on two CPUs.

Author: ```suggestion
If you need to limit the amount of CPU consumption you can use the `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option. This parameter limits the number of operating system threads that can be executing Go code simultaneously in each Go process. The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` option accepts an integer value not less than `0`, which is the default value that stands for "all available CPUs". The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` limit applies independently to the agent and each underlying Go process that it supervises. For example, if {agent} is configured to supervise two {beats} with `agent.limits.go_max_procs: 2` in the policy, then the total CPU limit is six, where each of the three processes may independently execute on two CPUs.
```

The `agent.limits.go_max_procs` configuration option is similar to the {beats} {filebeat-ref}/configuration-general-options.html#_max_procs[`max_procs`] setting. For more detail about the option, refer to the link:https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#GOMAXPROCS[GOMAXPROCS] function in the Go runtime documentation.

> To enable `agent.limits.go_max_procs`, run a <<fleet-api-docs,{fleet} API>> request from the {kib} {kibana-ref}/console-kibana.html[Dev Tools console] to override your current {agent} policy and add the `go_max_procs` parameter. For example, to limit Go code to two operating system threads, run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable `agent.limits.go_max_procs`, run a <<fleet-api-docs,{fleet} API>> request from the {kib} {kibana-ref}/console-kibana.html[Dev Tools console] to override your current {agent} policy and add the `go_max_procs` parameter. For example, to limit Go processes supervised by {agent} to two operating system threads each, run:
```
